feat: improved docs for new hardware support (#3282)
NVIDIA/bare-metal-manager-core: docs/development/new_hardware_support.md

This guide explains how to add or extend hardware support in the NICo stack when new BMC/server hardware arrives that does not work out of the box. The general process is: ingest the hardware, observe where it fails, and patch the appropriate layer based on which of the three scenarios applies.

Changes for new hardware must not break existing platforms. Guard quirks behind vendor, model, or firmware checks instead of changing a shared path for every BMC.

> For background on how NICo uses Redfish end to end, see [Redfish Workflow](../architecture/redfish_workflow.md). For the currently supported hardware, see the [Hardware Compatibility List](../hcl.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For background on how NICo uses Redfish end to end, see [Redfish Workflow](../architecture/redfish_workflow.md). For currently supported hardware, see the [Hardware Compatibility List](../hcl.md).
```

## Before You Start

Hardware support has a higher review bar than a software-only change because maintainers and CI might not have access to the device. Before writing code:

1. Open an issue through the [GitHub issue chooser](https://github.com/NVIDIA/infra-controller/issues/new/choose) and agree on scope with the maintainers. Use a Feature/Enhancement request for a new vendor or platform and a Bug Report for a regression on supported hardware. Include the NICo version, OEM, model or SKU, DPU generation, NICs, BMC firmware, reproduction steps, expected and observed behavior, affected Redfish endpoints, and any time limit on hardware access.
2. Check the [Hardware Compatibility List](../hcl.md) to avoid duplicating an already-supported platform or to determine whether this is a firmware regression on an existing one.
3. Confirm that the hardware exposes the operations NICo needs. For a managed host, this normally includes Redfish power control, boot-order management, UEFI Secure Boot configuration, IPv6, firmware update, and serial-over-LAN. Record any missing or OEM-only operation in the issue.

> 4. Capture evidence from the live BMC before designing a workaround: service root, systems, managers, chassis, BIOS, boot options, network adapters, and firmware inventory. Remove credentials, addresses, serial numbers, and other site-specific data before sharing captures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open an issue through the [GitHub issue chooser](https://github.com/NVIDIA/infra-controller/issues/new/choose) and agree on scope with the maintainers.

   Use a Feature/Enhancement request for a new vendor or platform, and a Bug Report for a regression on supported hardware. Include the NICo version, OEM, model or SKU, DPU generation, NICs, BMC firmware, reproduction steps, expected and observed behavior, affected Redfish endpoints, and any time limit on hardware access.

1. Check the [Hardware Compatibility List](../hcl.md) to avoid duplicating an already-supported platform or to determine whether this is a firmware regression on an existing one.
 
1. Confirm that the hardware exposes the operations NICo needs.

   For a managed host, this normally includes Redfish power control, boot-order management, UEFI Secure Boot configuration, IPv6, firmware update, and serial-over-LAN. Record any missing or OEM-only operation in the issue.

1. Capture evidence from the live BMC before designing a workaround.

   This includes service root, systems, managers, chassis, BIOS, boot options, network adapters, and firmware inventory. Remove credentials, addresses, serial numbers, and other site-specific data before sharing captures.
```

The contributor is the hardware owner for the change and is responsible for validating it on the physical device. A build or mock-only test cannot establish that a vendor's real Redfish implementation works.

## Overview

NICo discovers and manages bare-metal hosts through their BMC (Baseboard Management Controller) via the DMTF Redfish standard. Two Rust Redfish client libraries handle this:

| Library | Role | Where Used |
|---|---|---|
| **[nv-redfish](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nv-redfish)** | Schema-driven, fast: site exploration reports, firmware inventory, sensor collection, health monitoring. | Site Explorer exploration (`crates/site-explorer/`), Hardware Health (`crates/health/src/`) |
| **[libredfish](https://github.com/NVIDIA/libredfish)** | Stateful BMC interactions: boot config, BIOS setup, power control, account/credential management, lockdown | Site Explorer state controller operations (`crates/site-explorer/`) |

> Site Explorer uses `nv-redfish` by default to generate `EndpointExplorationReport`s. Exploration through `libredfish` is deprecated; it remains temporarily available for comparison and transition testing through the `explore_mode` configuration setting (`SiteExplorerExploreMode`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Site Explorer uses `nv-redfish` by default to generate an `EndpointExplorationReport`. _Exploration through_ `libredfish` _is deprecated_; it remains temporarily available for comparison and transition testing through the `explore_mode` configuration setting (`SiteExplorerExploreMode`):
```

| Mode | Behavior |
|---|---|
| `nv-redfish` | Generate the report with nv-redfish (default) |
| `libredfish` | Generate the report with the deprecated libredfish exploration path |
| `compare-result` | Run both paths and report differences for transition testing |

Implement new exploration support in the `nv-redfish` path. Do not add new hardware support only to the deprecated libredfish exploration path. Stateful operations such as boot order, BIOS setup, lockdown, and credential rotation still use libredfish, so both libraries may need changes for a complete platform integration.

Beyond the Redfish libraries, **NICo itself** has vendor-aware logic that also needs updating - see [Changes in NICo](#changes-in-nico).

### Coordinating Redfish Library Changes

> [libredfish](https://github.com/NVIDIA/libredfish) and [nv-redfish](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nv-redfish) are separate upstream repositories. Submit required library changes there first and link those pull requests to the NICo hardware-support issue. After the upstream changes are merged and a libredfish tag or nv-redfish release is available, update NICo's dependency in the workspace `Cargo.toml` and `Cargo.lock` in the same NICo pull request as the corresponding Site Explorer, BMC Explorer, vendor-model, test, and documentation changes.

Reviewer: Since libredfish is deprecated, my proposal here is to demote it and position it as the optional second task. Also want to make the PR instructions a bit clearer.
```suggestion
[nv-redfish](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nv-redfish) and [libredfish](https://github.com/NVIDIA/libredfish) are separate upstream repositories. Submit required library changes to nv-redfish (and to libredfish if required) first, then link those pull requests to your NICo hardware-support issue.

After your upstream changes are merged, and an nv-redfish release or libredfish tag is available, open **one** NICo pull request. In that single pull request, update NICo's dependency in the workspace `Cargo.toml` and `Cargo.lock`, and make your corresponding Site Explorer, BMC Explorer, vendor-model, test, and documentation changes. 
```

Author: `libredfish` is still required for any mutating actions NICo takes against a BMC so not entirely deprecated yet. All report generation goes through `nv-redfish` currently.

> Local path overrides are only for development before the releases exist. Restore the released dependency declarations and regenerate `Cargo.lock` before submitting the NICo pull request; do not commit local checkout paths.

Reviewer: [Fern's got nice admonitions](https://buildwithfern.com/learn/docs/writing-content/components/callouts); let's use one here.

```suggestion
<Warning title="No local paths">
Local path overrides are only for development before the releases exist. Restore the released dependency declarations and regenerate `Cargo.lock` before submitting the NICo pull request; do not commit local checkout paths.
</Warning>
```

## The Three Scenarios

> ### Scenario 1: Completely New BMC Vendor

Reviewer: I know it's not your change, but it's right there, so let's do it..
```suggestion
### Scenario 1: New BMC Vendor
```

**What to do:**

1. **Add a `RedfishVendor` variant** in `libredfish/src/model/service_root.rs`.

> 

Reviewer: Spacing between list items is nicer to edit. So is using `1. ` for every number!

Author: TIL that markdown automatically generates a numbered list of all `1. `! Super handy if things get deleted/moved around in the list.

Reviewer: Yeah, absolutely the best approach for docs that are going to be primarily consumed in rendered form, rather than raw markdown. So much easier to maintain! (Same reason I try to avoid numbered headings.)

Review `handler.rs` for `bmc_vendor().is_*()` calls and add branches for the new vendor where its behavior differs.

## Testing Site Explorer with the BMC Explorer Tool

> Use the standalone BMC explorer tool, whose package and binary are named `bmc-explorer-cli`, to exercise the same `BmcEndpointExplorer` report-generation code as Site Explorer against a live BMC. The tool creates the **full** `EndpointExplorationReport` that NICo would produce for the BMC. Validate that the report contains the expected systems, managers, chassis, network adapters, firmware inventory, boot interface, and vendor/model classification; it does not require a running NICo deployment or a database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the standalone BMC explorer tool to exercise the same `BmcEndpointExplorer` report-generation code as Site Explorer against a live BMC. The tool creates the full `EndpointExplorationReport` that NICo would produce for the BMC.

**The report is written as JSON to standard output** (stdout), and diagnostic logs go to standard error (stderr). Validate that the report contains the expected systems, managers, chassis, network adapters, firmware inventory, boot interface, and vendor/model classification. The explorer tool, called `bmc-explorer-cli`, does not require a running NICo deployment or a database.
```

Build it from the workspace root:

```bash
cargo build -p bmc-explorer-cli
```

> Then run it against the BMC using the supported nv-redfish exploration path:

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Build the package from the workspace root:

```bash
cargo build -p bmc-explorer-cli
```

Then, run the CLI against the BMC using the supported nv-redfish exploration path:
````

Reviewer: Sorry for the mangled code suggestion! Updated the comment in case someone looks in the future.

```bash
target/debug/bmc-explorer-cli \
  --username <bmc-user> \
  --password <bmc-password> \
  --mode nv-redfish \
  --boot-mac <host-boot-interface-mac> \

>   <bmc-ip>

Reviewer: You mention the port flag below, so let's add it here with the default.
```suggestion
  --bmc-port 443
  <bmc-ip>
```

```

> `--boot-mac` is the MAC address of the interface from which the host is expected to boot. For the common managed-DPU configuration, use the host-facing `pf0` MAC of the primary DPU; for an integrated-NIC configuration, use the NIC selected as the primary boot interface. Use the same MAC for exploration, machine setup, setup status, and boot-order tests. Omit it only when the platform does not require a selected boot interface. See [Boot Interfaces and DPU Modes](../provisioning/boot-interfaces-and-dpu-modes.md) for how NICo selects and persists this value. HTTPS port 443 is the default; use `--bmc-port <port>` for a BMC listening elsewhere. The report is written as JSON to standard output and diagnostic logs go to standard error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--boot-mac` is the MAC address of the interface from which the host is expected to boot. For the common managed-DPU configuration, use the host-facing `pf0` MAC of the primary DPU; for an integrated-NIC configuration, use the NIC selected as the primary boot interface. Use the same MAC for exploration, machine setup, setup status, and boot-order tests. Omit it only when the platform does not require a selected boot interface. See [Boot Interfaces and DPU Modes](../provisioning/boot-interfaces-and-dpu-modes.md) for how NICo selects and persists this value.

`--bmc-port` is the (optional) port on which the BMC listens. HTTPS port 443 is the default; use `--bmc-port <port>` for a BMC listening elsewhere.
```

```bash
# Check if vendor detection and basic connectivity work

> target/debug/nico-admin-cli redfish --address <bmc-ip> --username <user> --password <pass> get-power-state

Reviewer: Every one of these would be easier to read with continuations...

```suggestion
target/debug/nico-admin-cli redfish \
  --address <bmc-ip> \
  --username <user> \
  --password <pass> \
  get-power-state
```

4. **Add OEM feature support** if needed. OEM extensions are gated behind Cargo features (`oem-ami`, `oem-dell`, `oem-hpe`, etc.) in `nv-redfish/redfish/Cargo.toml`.

## Optional BMC Mock Coverage

A BMC mock is optional but strongly recommended for a new vendor or a platform with a distinct Redfish surface because it lets CI preserve discovery, inventory, and provisioning behavior after access to the physical device is gone.

To add one:

1. Add a platform module under `crates/bmc-mock/src/hw/`, following a close existing platform such as `dell_poweredge_r750.rs` or `supermicro_gb300_nvl.rs`.
2. Register the module in `crates/bmc-mock/src/hw/mod.rs` and add a typed `HostHardwareType` variant in `crates/bmc-mock/src/lib.rs`.
3. Wire the variant through `crates/bmc-mock/src/machine_info.rs`: DPU count and type, vendor and product identity, Redfish version, manager, system, chassis, discovery, firmware inventory, and OEM behavior should match the live BMC responses relevant to the test.
4. Add focused tests for the behavior the hardware contribution changes, such as vendor detection, inventory, NIC-mode detection, or provisioning.

> ## Contribution Workflow and Pull Request Evidence

Reviewer: I feel like there's a lot of duplication between this and the PR-related section earlier.

At the least, take the changes I suggested there and add them here, but I think more likely we should consolidate *and* move this checklist to the top of the file. Is it the main reason someone is going to be reading this page? If so, put it up top and let it serve as the guide to the information on the page.

Author: Fixed! Put it at the top of the doc to serve as a guide for the rest of the sections.
